the Israeli military says it has
attacked dozens of Hezbollah Targets in
southern Lebanon in retaliation for
Rockets fired over the border Israel
released this footage saying it hit
esbah weapons storage and
infrastructure now the Israeli defense
minister says the group's leaders have
paid a heavy
price the operational results are highly
impressive half of Hezbollah commanders
in southern Lebanon were eliminated
these were people in charge of the
offensive
operation to harm the citizens of
Israel they are now either dead or
hiding having abandoned Southern Lebanon
to the idf's Intensive
operation let's pick up on that with
Rebecca ritters from our studio in
Jerusalem Rebecca aah official dismisses
the Israeli defense minister statement
as completely worthless and says aimed
only at boosting Israeli morale uh how
is it being reported in
Israel well it's been reported that
Israel has been carrying out this
offensive action in southern Lebanon now
that's something that yav Galant the
defense minister who you just heard from
there had signaled some weeks ago that
Israel would also be moving to offensive
action not just defensive action now we
know that there's been tit for T tit
fortat rather border crossborder action
since the 8th of October when Hezbollah
launched its first Rockets into uh
Northern Israel from Southern Lebanon
after following that Hamas terror attack
on October 7 but we've seen now in the
last 24 hours the IDF saying it's hit
some 40 targets that's the latest figure
that we have infrastructure and
Munitions targets largely but also y
Galant saying as you just heard there
that 50% of hezbollah's Southern command
have also being wiped out of course
impossible to verify those numbers from
where I'm standing but that is what
they're saying many analysts have been
saying and many Israelis too saying that
a direct conflict between Israel and
Lebanon is more or less inevitable but
those same analysts saying that it's
unlikely it will happen until the the
conflict that's happening in Gaza or the
war that's happening in Gaza is quote
over or finished uh and certainly you
know after you know something looking
like a ra or offensive which is
certainly where everyone's eyes are
focused on now uh so something in the
North should say wouldn't happen until
after then so it's unlikely that what
we're seeing now is any kind of
escalation more a continuation of the
tip fortat that we have been seeing over
the last months and Iraq I'd like to
pick up right there with the war on Gaza
it's now been more than 200 days of War
at this stage is it clear what Israel's
plan
is well it's never really 100% clear of
course we have been seeing in recent
days more air strikes and another
slightly larger bomb bombardments in the
center and north of Gaza ey Witnesses
saying it's certainly some of the
heaviest that they've witnessed in
recent times we've heard of evacuation
orders uh for people in that Northern
Region as well but of course all eyes
really focused on this imminent Rafer
offensive it's what analysts are saying
is almost inevitable now and we've been
seeing some reporting today from the
access uh web web media site saying that
three very senior officials are actually
in Egypt to discuss a potential raer
offensive there with officials now Egypt
have been very against uh any kind of
offensive happening in Rafa because of
the you know more than 1 million people
that are there Sheltering from other
parts of the Gaza Strip earlier today we
also heard from the Israeli military to
say that they are ready we know that two
battalions two Reserve battalions were
called up and they've been training the
military today saying that they're ready
to carry out Rafa offensive but they are
just waiting for the political green
light so that gives some indication of
where we think things are at Benjamin
Netanyahu two weeks AG ago saying that
there was a date set for the Rafer
Invasion since then we had quite a bit
of distraction with the Iran
Counterattack and then the Israeli
counter Counterattack now all eyes back
on this what seems to be inevitable
Rafer offensive analysts saying though
that it may not happen immediately
because there is still a need to at
least move some of the more than million
people that are Sheltering in Rafa so
certainly look looks like that that
offensive is going to be carried out but
probably not in the next hours or even
in the next days our correspondent
Rebecca Ritter in Jerusalem thank you